Welcome everyone and thank you again and with us. Now I'm going to talk a little bit of teaching
on the way, slowly of this teaching by the great master of His Holiness Dudjoom Rinpoche.
Just a few lines for every day then for this time. So I'm just going to speak this. I'm sure
many of you already have this copy and so you can look to these facts and I will go over this.
The first I talk a little bit about His Holiness Dudjoom Rinpoche and many of you already know
that but even you know we just remember of this one of the great masters of the 20th century
of the Tvit Buddhists and he was so beautiful humble and simple, daunted art. Even though he's
one of the great master, honored by so many great, I realize that the base of honor comes to you
but
yet he's so humble and simple. That's what I'm saying, daunted art. He's not just a kind of like
sanctity because he's a great master, he kind of acts that way. He acts so simple, so ordinary,
so kind of like casual and he meddles with all the every students, particularly those who are
weak and uneducated person. He's so more kind than even same looks to the others. That really is so
humble and simple and yet his knowledge, his realization is so brilliant and powerful
and his kind is a compassion. It's just an overwhelming thing. He was also predicted by
Guru Pemma Sambhava in the 8th century, his upcoming and as Guru Pemma Sambhava predicted
he was born in the 19th of Tov in southern Tvit, the hidden body, the sacred land of Guru Pemma S
ambhava
known as the Pemma. He was born and he grew up there but immediately the moment he was born,
he conserved in the mother's womb, there's so many extraordinary things happening around
around family and around the area and the villages and he was born and beautifully and part of the
child without giving any difficulty to the mother and he was born and as a grown-up he did so many
great works, works to benefit for all the sentient beings, to the teaching, to the dharma and he
became the one of the principal teachers, master, all the peoples, everyone devoted person, not
just the
only the great master's really, he's the teacher of everyone, everyone and that's what really he
was
and he was great scholars, he was great partners, he was great historians, he wrote over 25 volumes
of the books, books that which is now combined and published there. So this is the great master's
and he has many many numerous teachings that explain essence of the Buddha teaching
and vanishes the heart of the devoted practitioners. So simple, so simple, easy
and kind of complicated teaching but absorbed so easily in the heart and mind and this is the one
of the his teachings and then many of you all have this. So I'm going to talk about these teachings
and so this is the, here like this is the one of the, he's the writing, he wrote this letter,
senator is one of the students, student and is named here, Lama Dawa, he's still alive, he's
very one of the really beautiful practitioners, helmeted yogi still alive and he so he wrote this
teaching to this devoted student of him, the Lama Dawa, Lama Dawa's. This is similar
as like Navarjuna wrote letter to his friends, similar many times the great master's write
letter to send that to the students as they are close it and that kind of, so during their
retreat the practice though can have the really something special arsenal blessings that can
sustain and activate their realizations practices go smooth. So this is one of the
these teachings. Teachings and so now here see first I mean I got these first three lines
dedicated to the practitioner at the yamne shoes so that explaining area where yamne shoes is the
area
where this lama is doing practices. This lama, Lama Dawa is also disciple of the very famous
nima master, the master known as his wholeness Chhadra Rambojir or the Chhadra Rambojir, his
student too. So Chhadra Rambojir is organized and he and he is guiding the retreat like a retreat,
three-year retreat, three-year retreat and Lama Dawa was one of the retreatents in that
retreat center and his practicing. And yamne shoe is the very famous
central mountain central cave where Gopin Masambhava attained the realization of the
Vaidya Kalya. Kalya or Mahamudra state, or Mahamudra Vida Dara state, state he achieved that. So
here
he said how this that area how this Lama Dawa is practiced. He said the poor kind of ones you have
again he's reminded you are the poor kind of ones generally he is having the beautiful life
and the beautiful human human life is very fortunate it's not just kind of simple easy to
get it's very special that we all know and we all are fortune ones truly everyone is fortunate
everyone is very very very like lucky lucky that we have this opportunity and similarly Lama Dawa
and not just only they have obtained beautiful human body or precious human body but you are
dedicated to practicing and activated teaching into the heart mind that makes even more precious
you have taken the meaning of the lives the various lives for that reason I give you this
instruction
with the love from my heart that means with affection with love with personal caring
thought I will give this advice to you but here his only the new motive mentioned to Lama Dawa
but reality to all of us this is the message of from his own to the new motive to all of us
not just the only one this is the one really how we should follow our practices how we should
activate our the teaching with the disease or the empowerment we received so that is the post
few lines of that kind of in a way history of how this teaching came came and now we go with
these portal lines that is the belief actually teaching begins this but we are again to speak
of the teachings always in the teaching said what when we practice and as you all know
we receive the teaching always correcting our motivations
motivation is so important and motivation is good correct motivation is so important
when we resume in the teachings when we are starting the teaching when we meditate in the
teaching on practice with practicing always have good motivations why motivation is so important
because mind is the principle of our that means what our what we have our sub means
body verbal communication is active talks and mind those are in the teaching open name
the three principles that symbolize individuals body speech and the mind these three among that
three the mind is the most powerful mind is the ruler of that for those reasons always in the
teaching said at the beginning of the very practice the meditating or or starting the teaching
always
have the good motivation what kind of good motivation we should have
motivation generally there's so many motivations but among this time good motivation what is that
good motivation best up on the joy in the appreciations love and kind is a compare your thought
that is known as good motivation that is the positive motivation
when we have that good motivation everything turns into good good so therefore
mind is so powerful mind is so important but therefore positive joy in the application
application as i said alien and you all know no to obtain this human body is so special
we had a beautiful life even though we're going this challenges that but this still there's so
many things to fill up in joy to ourselves our situation our circumstances so feel happy in joy
joy of this then this joy is not just only kind of a light in our side but we're going to share
that joy application and to all the living beings with the compassion with the loving kindness
which is often known as then both each other mind of enlightenment really wishing good things to
every living beings that is always necessary actually buddha teaching is you all know
it's teaching of non-violence teaching of equal limits every living being is equal
and every living has because equal why they have so many levels we are equal every levels
feeling level equal equal our desire level equal equal and wishing level equal whatever we're
wishing same we are wishing same wish good things to everyone oh our self and we no one wanted
sad and suffering difficulty we are equal and the potential level equal the direct teacher
buddha hektamali said everyone has same potential same nature as buddha himself there's no
difference
so therefore physical level level we are equal biological level we're equal and
feeling level we're equal natural level we're equal and we share the same planet or same goal
same a same sun same moon same water therefore we share everything same thing for that reason
everyone want happy and peace and joy joy and that therefore for us following the teaching of
the buddha hektamali really for that reason we wish everyone is happy peace even for example
together we are practicing listening and reflecting teaching we that may become the one of the
great
souls souls and cause to remove all the suffering the difficulty tumbles of the world right now and
beyond the world why i'm saying beyond the world because the greatest teacher buddha hektamali
explained there's six realms even though many of them maybe we don't see immediately but there's
six different realms those realms and even that whether we see or we don't see we share the same
same feeling same thing same desire desire so therefore wishing happiness wishing good things
with the body together it is so powerful that is hard essence of the teaching of the buddha dharma
particularly the mahayanas then many of unique practice maybe very early on too then often
teaching said also brain realization of the perfection status reality or true nature where
things are in the in the reality levels reality level according to teaching everything is
enlightened status those are known as the three radial status or the three kaya status
that we read in the book and it received the teaching from the great masters masters some
some intellectually where we also understood what that means realities is everything is in that
period state so without the kind of interference of the duality and a skeptical hesitation
bring that kind of divine the purity dawn of light in our heart can see everything purely status
and it's everything is purely state our mind is a love and a kind is a competitive with full of joy
in the application then we create a really beautiful in a way pure land our perceptions
our conceptions we make it pure beautiful there's nothing higher and a better field than a love and
kindness and compassion compassion love and compassion that don't have any boundaries
restrictions raise it to every living beings freely all good good heart prevail and the whole
universe and space is so special so beautiful that week is the very foundation of the buddha
teaching and our practices that we should always try to remember that and even fail out from there
trying to bounce back to that stage of that platform or that status that is known as the
practice of the dharma so that is so important and that is really my my brief talk today and just
reminded to all of us and also maybe i'm going to follow the the schedules what we planned to do
first we do the meditation but i kind of mixed up a little bit today and so then the teaching
and then the meditation thought to do but now we do together the meditation as all you do see the
teaching you all receive the teaching your own practices now really we do the meditation and
again when we do the meditation we should have the same body vector joy and appreciation and
both each other we meditate in this may really become the one of the greater cause to benefit
for all living beings to remove the suffering difficult troubles of the world and the universe
really we sincerely sincerely with may this become the at the same time feel close connection
buddha shakti mini and really feel and which is often known as also devotions those are the very
special devotion is me there is no skeptical no hesitations no kind of like doctors that
interfering our spiritual deepening practices you are embracing the reality nature where things are
and then we had that openly emissive then the blessings and a realization will really boom
shine or rise up so beautifully perfectly so therefore the presence of the
inseparably all the great lineage masters and with joy and appreciation and with both each other
and now we do meditation and meditation you all know meditating relaxing nature still in the mind
of meditation whatever you're practicing we're going to meditate relaxing the natural stages or
anyone okay thank you again you begin now